Add EIP: MIME Type For Web3 URL in Auto Mode (#7087)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7087.md

---
eip: 7087
title: MIME Type For Web3 URL in Auto Mode

> description: Deteremine the MIME type of a Web3 URL in auto mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Determine the MIME type of a Web3 URL in auto mode
```

> author: Qi Zhou (@qizhou), Nand2 (@nand2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Qi Zhou (@qizhou), Nicolas Deschildre (@nand2)
```

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7087-mime-type-for-web3-url-in-auto-mode/14471
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-05-28
requires: 4804
---

## Abstract

> This standard extends the Web3 URL like `web3://` in [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) in auto mode to deteremine the MIME type of a link via additional queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard extends the Web3 URL like `web3://` in [ERC-4804](./eip-4804.md) in auto mode to determine the MIME type of a link via additional query parameters.
```

## Motivation

> Web3 URL defines a way to deteremine the MIME type of a link in auto mode via the suffix of the last argument.  However, most of existing contracts on Ethereum do not expect such suffix and thus the current Web3 URL cannot display the web contents on existing contracts in a correct way (e.g., rendering an SVG image rather than the XML text).  The standard proposes additional queries for a Web3 URL to deteremine the MIME type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3 URL defines a way to determine the MIME type of a link in auto mode via the suffix of the last argument.  However, most of existing contracts on Ethereum do not expect such suffix and thus the current Web3 URL cannot display the web contents on existing contracts in a correct way (e.g., rendering an SVG image rather than the XML text).  The standard proposes additional query parameters for a Web3 URL to determine the MIME type.
```

## Specification

> The standard introduces three types of queries to determine the MIME type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard introduces three query parameters to determine the MIME type.
```

> - `mime.content=<contentType>`, where `<contentType>`, after URL decoding, sets `Content-Type` field in the response header; or

Author: EIP cannot use the external link.  Going to remove the link here.

> - `mime.content=<contentType>`, where `<contentType>`, after URL decoding, sets `Content-Type` field in the response header; or

Reviewer 2: We do actually allow links to RFCs! See [EIP-1](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1#internet-engineering-task-force-ietf) for details.

- `mime.type=<fileType>`, where `<fileType>` is the file suffix that determines `Content-Type` field in the response header; or

> - `mime.dataurl=(true|false)`, which determines whether to decode the returned EVM data and set the MIME type according to data URL standard.  If the data cannot be parsed as data URL, an error will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mime.dataurl=(true|false)`, which determines whether to decode the returned EVM data and set the MIME type according to the [data URL standard](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2397).  If the data cannot be parsed as data URL, an error will be returned.
```

> If multiple queries are present, the last query will be applied.  If none of the query is specified, `Content-Type` is undefined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple query parameters are present, the last query parameter will be applied.  If none of the query parameter is specified, `Content-Type` is undefined.
```

  
### Examples

#### Example 1

```
web3://0x91cf36c92feb5c11d3f5fe3e8b9e212f7472ec14/accessorizedImageOf/1289?mime.content=image%2Fsvg%2Bxml
```

where the contract is in auto mode.

The protocol will call the contract `0x91cf36c92feb5c11d3f5fe3e8b9e212f7472ec14` with the message defined in ERC-4804 and `Content-Type` is set to `image/svg+xml`.

#### Example 2

```
web3://0x91cf36c92feb5c11d3f5fe3e8b9e212f7472ec14/accessorizedImageOf/1289?mime.type=svg
```

where the contract is in auto mode.

The protocol will call the contract `0x91cf36c92feb5c11d3f5fe3e8b9e212f7472ec14` with the message defined in ERC-4804 and `Content-Type` is set to `image/svg+xml`.

#### Example 3

```
web3://0xff9c1b15b16263c61d017ee9f65c50e4ae0113d7/tokenURI/100?mime.dataurl=true
```

where the contract is in auto mode, and the returned data is `data:application/json;base64,...`.

> The protocol will call the contract `0xff9c1b15b16263c61d017ee9f65c50e4ae0113d7` with the message defined in ERC-4804 and decode the data according to data URL standard, which sets  `Content-Type` to `applicaiton/json`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol will call the contract `0xff9c1b15b16263c61d017ee9f65c50e4ae0113d7` with the message defined in ERC-4804 and decode the data according to data URL standard, which sets `Content-Type` to `application/json`,
```

## Rationale

> The standard uses three types of queries rather than a single type of query to avoid confusion - an implementer or a user can easily tell the expected returned MIME of a link.  Further, in auto mode, the query parts are not used to form the EVM message (e.g., calldata) and thus it is safe to introduce new queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard uses three different query parameters rather than a single query paramter to avoid confusion - an implementer or a user can easily tell the expected returned MIME of a link.  Further, in auto mode, the query parameters are not used to form the EVM message (e.g., calldata) and thus it is safe to introduce new query parameters.
```
